CSE 120 Project Summaries  
Fall 2023  
 
 
1. Identification of Pathogens in Image Library  
 
Background  
Sunburst Agribiotech Solutions , LLC  (SAS)  is located at Turlock, CA. We do plant/ soil/water diagnostics for 
diseases caused by agronomically important plant pathogens. The specific activity will be using AI in identifying plant 
pathogens from microscopic  images . 
 
Problem(s)  
To identify plant pathogens in a non -subjective manner using software  that is backed up by AI using the real images 
of the pathogen as seen under the microscope . 
 
Objectives  
Use the pathogen images files and create an algorithm and a software program that can now be used to ID plant 
pathogens . 
 
2. Capstone Purchasing App 
 
Background   
The School  of Engineering  (SoE)  Instructional Lab Services  at UC Merced  provides support to Capstone 
students in terms of providing training and access to instructional equipment, specialized lab spaces, and handling 
Capstone purchasing requests.  
 
Problem(s)  
The problem is to streamline the purchasing process for capstone teams which involves 1) submission of purchase 
requests by capstone teams to the teaching faculty 2) review and approval of the purchase requests by teaching faculty 
3) tracking team budget/e xpenses for faculty to consider during the approval and 4) submission of the approved 
purchase requests to SoE Instructional Staff.  
 
Objectives  
The objective of the project is to develop an APP to streamline the capstone purchasing process to get timely 
approval from the faculty and reduce the staff time. Complete capstone purchasing process involves:  
1) Purchase request submission, approval, budget tracking, maintaining inventory of purchases.  
2) Placing the order using CBS2/Oracle system.  
3) Getting tracking/delivery updates to the Campus  
4) Delivering the items to various teams  
 
Minimum viable product should include the following items:  
1) Submission of purchase requests by capstone teams to the teaching faculty: SoE Staff will provide a sample 
purchase request form along with data verification criteria for various fields. Once the form is submitted by a 
Team, teaching faculty should be noti fied of the submission.  
2) Tracking team budget/expenses for faculty to consider during the approval: Team’s expenses should be tracked 
against the allotted budget for each team. This information should be available to the teaching faculty with each 
purchase request submission.  
3) Review and approval of the purchase requests by teaching faculty: Reminders should be sent to the faculty until 
the approval process has been completed. If the request has been rejected, the reason for the rejection should be 
communicated back to the team along with suggestions from the faculty.  
4) Submission of the approved purchase requests to SoE Instructional Staff: If the request has been approved, the 
approved purchase request form should be submitted to SoE staff for processing.  
5) A running inventory of all the approved items should be available for SoE staff and teaching faculty to keep track 
of purchases and flag items for retrieval at the end of the semester.  
 Add-ons: 
1) Placing the order using CBS2/Oracle system: This will require communication between APP and Oracle API 
(involves campus level permissions).  
2) Getting tracking/delivery updates to the Campus: This will require getting relevant information using Oracle API 
based on the Purchase Order number.  
3) Delivering the items to various teams: This will require identifying the delivery boxes by scanning labels. Once the 
team is identified, a custom message is sent to the team regarding the delivery place and time.  
4) Making instructional equipment requests: The App should provide a way for student teams to make equipment 
requests to the Instructional Team. The request should first be approved by the instructor before being routed to 
the Instructional team (email will b e provided).  
5) Making lab access requests: The App should provide a way for student teams to make lab space requests to 
Instructional Team. The request should first be approved by the instructor before being routed to the 
Instructional team (email will be provided).  
6) Safety training report: The App should allow the instructor to upload student roster along with team information 
(team numbers, team members, roles). Each student should be able to upload their safety certificates to the app. 
The App should be able to gene rate a report indicating which students have completed the training and which are 
still pending . 
 
3. Employee Coaching and Development Tracking Page  
 
Background  
As the preferred leader in temperature -controlled warehousing and logistics services, United States Cold Storage  
(USCS)  offers highly reliable, cost -effective, and environmentally sustainable solutions for the frozen and refrigerated 
food industries. Our approach is to build high -quality warehouses equipped with the newest, most efficient 
refrigeration technology available  and engage strong local management teams who continuously measure and improve 
performance.  
USCS manages more than 376 million cubic feet of temperature -controlled warehouse, and distribution space in 
42 facilities located across the United States. USCS is the third largest  public refrigerated warehousing  (PRW ) logistics 
provider in North America and employs more than 3,500 service professionals. USCS also offers logistics and 
transportation services. Our consolidation programs are the best in the U.S. - building full trucks from less than 
truckload (LTL) shipments and helping our customers be more efficient. We have nationwide coverage and a flexible 
distribution model that fits many business needs. Goods get to the market efficiently, consistently, and most 
importantly - safely.  
Our transportation management system  (TMS  interfaces with all USCS operating systems to access customer 
order information, deliver  electronic data interchange  (EDI) transactions sets and update reporting needs for every 
stage of the transportation management process . 
 
Problem(s)  
The current observations page on Performance Plus (USCS Labor Management System) is designed and aligned with 
an older process of performing coaching and observations. Over the last 6 years, with changes in customers and 
processes, there have been massive changes in observations and coaching processes. This demands a revamp of the 
observation page in Performance Plus that assists the new coaching processes and efficient tracking.  
 
Objectives  
Provide a better and efficient coaching and observation tracker webpage to eliminate the need for manually tracking 
follow -ups. This will be relevant to the new coaching process. This will give ability for the company to sustain the new 
coaching process an d utilize it to make LMS proficient and promote a productive work environment.  
 
Standard Features:   
• Different display pages based on type of coaching (skill and behavioral).  
• Drop down option for task type, date user, observer. Check marks for list of skills to select.  
• Date drop down for follow -up date.  
• Display interactive KTS (training documentation) with check marks.  
• As each check mark gets selected, it gets quantified (score) based on skills, behavior, and safety.  
• Option to attach any documents.  
• Ability to link original (parent) observation if this is a follow -up using observation ID no.  • Once it is linked, the page should show the history from the previous one.  
Bonus Features:  
• Provide analytics on based KTS score, performance correlation.  
• Show trends from previous parent observations along the follow -up ones.  
• SMS or email as reminder of the follow -up. 
 
4. Data Clean -up Tool  
 
Background   
As the preferred leader in temperature -controlled warehousing and logistics services, United States Cold Storage  
(USCS)  offers highly reliable, cost -effective, and environmentally sustainable solutions for the frozen and refrigerated 
food industries. Our approach is to build high -quality warehouses equipped with the newest, most efficient 
refrigeration technology available  and engage strong local management teams who continuously measure and improve 
performance.  
USCS manages more than 376 million cubic feet of temperature -controlled warehouse, and distribution space in 
42 facilities located across the United States. USCS is the third largest  public refrigerated warehousing  (PRW ) logistics 
provider in North America and employs more than 3,500 service professionals. USCS also offers logistics and 
transportation services. Our consolidation programs are the best in the U.S. - building full trucks from less than 
truckload (LTL) shipments and helping our customers be more efficient. We have nationwide coverage and a flexible 
distribution model that fits many business needs. Goods get to the market efficiently, consistently, and most 
importantly - safely.  
Our transportation management system  (TMS interfaces with all USCS operating systems to access customer order 
information, deliver  electronic data interchange  (EDI) transactions sets and update reporting needs for every stage of 
the transportation management process . 
 
Problem(s)  
The presence of large amounts of bad data which does not comply with the required format, currently not relevant 
and that has been entered into the warehouse management system  (WMS ) incorrectly and cannot be utilized for any 
purpose. This data always causes hinderance in many daily activities, become hurdles when the company transitions to 
a new WMS and most importantly occupies huge amounts of memory in the server systems. A tool wh ich can help 
identify this bad data, modify it to required format and delete gaps,  if necessary, can help resolve many of the 
forementioned issues . 
 
Objectives  
Objective is to design and function tool that can help the company to identify and delete, modify, fix this bad data, 
gaps in data, and eliminate a large amount as per user requirement. This will reduce manual work related to fixing this 
bad data.    
 
Standard features:  
• Ability to read various formats of data (xml, csv, pdf etc.;) and display in rows and columns.  
• Give the user the ability to define each row or column of data according to the user’s preference. And modify or 
display the data that is not according to the defined parameters. Preferably in GUI for a layman to use it.  
• Combine different sets of data of same format into one set and customize as per user requirements.  
• Ability to export into different formats as per user needs.  
 
Bonus features:  
• Identify duplicate data in different formats, errors such as wrong address format, punctuation , spellings, and 
address styles. Filter the data and display the rows and columns with these discrepancies.  
• Creating visuals from the data . 
 
5. Camera to Robot Calibration  
 
Background  
Omron Robotics and Safety Technologies , Inc. (ORT)  is an automation technology development company 
focused on robotics design and manufacturing. Omron is the leader in the field of industrial automation with 
operations in over 40 countries and 150 locations worldwide. Our company is unique in that it devel ops new electronics, mechanics, and software for an exceptionally broad spectrum of robotics - including Selective Compliance 
Articulated Robot Arm  (SCARA ), articulated, parallel link, cobots, and autonomous mobile robots - for the global 
market . 
 
Problem(s)  
ORT  designs and manufactures, among other things, non -mobile Robots, or Robotic ‘arms’. They are configured to 
run with a PC controller that can also drive cameras and part moving equipment such as part feeders and conveyor 
belts. The software that configures and runs on the PC and robot is called ACE (Automation Control Environment).   
These robotic arms can be used to move pieces from one part line to a different place (pick and place). To enable 
seamless object detection and precise robot positioning, the ACE software relies on camera -to-robot calibration. This 
process involves converting camera coordinate positions into the robot's own X -Y-Z coordinate system.   
ACE software system has the ability to locate objects in the real world using either 2 D or 3D cameras. In some 
instances, the camera can be mounted to a part of the Robot’s arm.   
ACE requires the ability to obtain a robot  coordinate position from a position located in any newly obtained 
image or point -cloud (Camera coordinate system). This ability is referred to as camera to robot calibration.  The 
calibration procedure happens through a series of pictures from a given camera position and interactive robot arm tip 
real world placements.  A real world “calibration object” (3 D printed piece) is in some cases placed in the images them 
and is easily recognized by ACE. The user moves the robot to touch the tip of the object. There are slightly different 
calibration methods in use currently depending on if the camera is arm mounted, etc.    
Currently, there are some shortcomings to the process.  Calibration may need to be redone several times until a 
reasonable accuracy is achieved.  The user input is critical,  and errors are easily introduced. A lot of positioning is 
involved,  and the right positions must be chosen.   
A single robot to world 3D translation is generated from the procedure. The precision of a given translation 
conversion may be off by several mm . 
 
Objectives  
We would like to improve the accuracy of the robot positions estimated from the camera by replacing the calibration 
method that does the conversion and/or the process to obtain it.  
The UC Merced team is embarking on an exciting opportunity to revolutionize the field of robotics by enhancing 
camera -to-robot calibration for Omron's Industrial Fixed Position Robots, powered by the cutting -edge ACE 
software. We are seeking passionate and  innovative students to collaborate with us in developing groundbreaking 
algorithms and C# .dll files that will redefine the precision of robot positions estimated from camera inputs.  
By joining our team, you will have the chance to explore advanced techniques for calibrating camera vision 
coordinates to robot coordinates, working with both 2D and 3D images/point clouds. This is a unique opportunity to 
dive into the fascinating world of  robotics, combining computer vision and automation to create real -world impact.  
Throughout this collaborative project, you will work closely with industry experts from the ACE team, gaining 
invaluable insights into the state -of-the-art technologies used in industrial robotics. Your contributions will be 
instrumental in pushing the bou ndaries of calibration accuracy, revolutionizing the way robots perceive and interact 
with their environment.  
Not only will you have the chance to pioneer innovative solutions, but your work will also be evaluated for its 
precision and usability. We aim to develop a calibration method that is not only highly accurate but also user -friendly, 
ensuring seamless integ ration within the ACE software ecosystem.  
 
6. WDTrainTrack  
 
Background   
The client is Western Digital  Corporation  (WDC) . Western Digital Corporation is an American computer hard disk 
drive manufacturer and data storage company that provides cost -effective solutions for storing, generating, and 
accessing data. It designs, manufactures, and sells data technology products, in cluding storage devices, data center 
systems, and cloud storage services. The client for this project is R&D global teams, located in different countries. 
This project focuses on training management.  
 
Problem(s)  
The limitations of current manual, labor -intensive training management methods result in suboptimal learning 
outcomes and inefficient use of resources. Commercial solutions often fall short due to lack of customization options 
and adaptability to specific organizational needs. Our proposed application provides a tailored solution that boosts the efficiency and effectiveness of training, ultimately impacting overall organizational performance. By automating and 
digitizing training processes, we empower managers to devise custom training plans, automatically track progress, and 
provide real -time upd ates, enabling quicker decision -making and resource allocatio n. 
 
Objectives  
The primary deliverable will be the fully functioning web -based application. This includes:  
• User Interface (UI): A user -friendly, intuitive, and responsive web interface for employees, managers, and 
administrators.  
• Backend Server: A secure and efficient server setup to handle requests and provide services such as user 
management, progress tracking, and notification management.  
• Database: A well -structured database to store all relevant data.  
 
7. DocGPT  
 
Background  
Sweep  designs big data workflow software that is used for processing different types of data such as images, text and 
machine data. Using the Sweep API, a simple cloud -based data gathering platform for storing and analyzing time 
series data in a scalable fashio n, we work with customers to provide custom workflow solutions. Large Language 
Models have the potential to change the landscape of what it means to be a knowledge worker and revolutionize the 
way we collect, analyze, and understand data.  
 
Problem(s)  
Company knowledge is often times available only through PDFs within an internal internet. In many cases, when too 
many PDFs exist, information can become lost due to the sheer volume of documents created by the company on a 
regular basis. We would like to develop a simple tool that will allow us to read the contents of a PDF  and create 
machine readable text that summarizes the information in the document for further processing in a custom workflow. 
Using a readily available open -source large language model or online API, you will develop a software tool that will 
interact wit h either local PDF documents in a shared network filesystem or within a local web intranet.  
 
Objectives  
Develop a JSON schema that summarizes the contents of the PDF  using a large language model. For example, if 
presented with a table on a page, attempt to transform that table into a JSON formatted table object. JSON Schema 
can be predefined by the team. This includes defining what summary questions will need to be as ked to complete an 
analysis of a PDF . Software workflow must be able to process at least 10 PDF s per minute. Must be able to query 
compiled PDF  JSON data through a REST API. You’re  able to use either a locally hosted large language model or an 
online API to generate the machine -readable JSON data.  
 
8. Satellite Imagery Web Application  
 
Background  
The Morning Star Company’s subsidiary company , Gradient Crop Yield Solutions (Gradient) , provides technical 
services to tomato, pistachio, and almond growers primarily in the California Central Valley.  One of these services is 
crop health images. Previously, Gradient would provide crop health images to growers using drones. Unfortunately, a s 
the number of acres Gradient covered grew, the expense in imaging increased exponentially as well. As a result, 
Gradient moved to using satellite imagery to provide crop health images to growers. Even though the imaging cost 
was reduced by switching to s atellite images, Gradient is looking to further reduce the cost by creating its own 
platform to process and view images.  
 
Problem(s)  
Currently, Gradient is hiring a third -party company, EOS, to download the dataset of the most recent publicly 
available satellite imagery from Sentinel 2. EOS then uses a Keyhole Markup Language (KML) file, containing latitude 
and longitude coordinates, su bmitted by Gradient to find the grower fields in the satellite imagery data. Afterwards, 
EOS processes the images using band wavelength manipulation to create the popular crop health monitoring 
algorithms such as NDVI and NDRE. After the images are process ed, they are displayed on a web platform for our 
growers to view the images.  
 Objectives  
Gradient Crop Yield Solutions is interested in creating a web platform that displays processed NDVI/NDRE images 
using Sentinel 2 images. Grower fields will be mapped using a list of coordinates stored as a KML file. The ideal 
design would be a web platform  that accepts a KML file and returns the most recent processed Sentinel 2 satellite 
image using the NDVI or NDRE algorithm. The web platform needs to have a front -end and back -end that interact 
with each other. The front -end should have an option to upload  KML files, while the back end will process the file to 
get the most recent Sentinel 2 image.  After processing, the front -end should render a map with the most recent 
satellite image overlayed on top of the map.  
 
9. Bio-Secure Scheduler  
 
Background  
Agrecom  provides a spectrum of solutions in the areas of water treatment and sanitation, targeting clients in 
agriculture, residential, and commercial sectors. However, this project is being sponsored by Agrecom as a community 
service.  As a sponsor Agrecom has already communicated with county officials about this project and  will facilitate 
introductions to all the necessary public agencies.  
 
Problem(s)  
The majority of our customers have stringent biosecurity controls on the technician’s  ability to visit their site, and 
then go to another site. Scheduling is manual, and time consuming . We have tried commercial solutions, but none can 
manage the customer biosecurity restrictions, and the schedule has to be manually redone anyway.  
 
Objectives  
Objec tives of this project are as follows:  
• Taking in a list of technicians, their capabilities, and customers and their job requests, create a weekly /monthly 
work schedule that strictly follows biosecurity quarantine requirements.  
• Taking into account expected job duration , suggest route optimization for each technician maximizing their day.  
• Allow the addition of jobs to the schedule and suggest which technicians are quarantined enough to do the work, 
and what jobs could be impacted by it – shuffling the work and schedule as needed to fit it in.  
 
10. PhoenixSync: Remote Firmware Management for IoT  
 
Background  
TC IoT Solutions is the  Original Design Manufacturer  (ODM ) Services and Custom Device Lifecycle Management 
engine of Telit Cinterion , the Western leader in secure global digital transformation and Industrial IoT. The 
company’s secure -by-design products and services enable business operating in Security and Surveillance, Energy and 
Utilities, Telematics and Tracking, Healthcare and Wellness, and Mobile Broadband.   
 
Problem(s)  
The IoT Solutions Business Unit is currently constrained by manual management of firmware -over-the-air (FOTA) 
updates to customer IoT devices deployed in the field. These factors are limiting the business’ opportunities to service 
new customers and harming the business’ reputation and bottom line. Whatever solution is adopted must be simple to 
deploy, easy to use, and built to scale. It must be able to work within the existing environment.  
 
Objectives  
The PhoenixSync Project Team will be tasked with the creation  of a robust and user -friendly web -based application to 
track devices and seamlessly manage FOTA updates. The application and visualization dashboard will offer a 
comprehensive set of features to streamline the firmware update process, enhance security, and provide valuable 
insights into de vice performance.  
 
11. Virtual Warehouse  
 
Background  
Nutstar Software LLC  is a Merced based software company.  We have been building software for the Tree Nut 
Industry for 15 years. We value our client base and want to continue to innovate technology to further improve the 
industry and its efficiency.  Problem(s)  
We have created virtual warehouse software and technology that will allow for inventory to be handled  without 
human scanning. While we have engineered an initial product, it has proven to be costly and difficult to implement.  
We are planning to replace a portion of our technology with Bluetooth and gateway equipment.  
 
Objectives  
Request to write a code in C# that tracks the Bluetooth asset tag (AoA  – Angle of Arrival -- Beacon/moving device) 
from an A oA Gateway (Locator/receiver/fixed position)  to a grid measured by feet (See reference “Hardware labels”  
and “4x4 Grid”  in https://ucmerced.box.com/s/44n679xfchxbb27aqsj151z1jukmc5af ). The dimensions of the grid 
can be of any length, as long as they are uniform.  
Position readings would come from an A oA Beacon to the A oA Locator, to which the data will be extracted and 
passed on to a PC (Windows 10/11 OS). The data extraction can be in string or int datatypes.  
Devices are from Dusun, which has open -source code samples that includes API that can be used for this project.  
 
12. Defect Detection on Silicon Wafer Using Neural Network  
 
Background  
Western Digital Corporation (WDC)  is an American computer drive manufacturer and data storage company, 
headquartered in San Jose, California. It designs, manufactures,  and sells data technology products, including hard 
drives and Flash Memory Solid State drives (SSD). SSD has been widely used in data centers, cell phones etc. Western 
Digital is one of the world’s  5 manufacturers  of Flash  memory. The Flash memory is silicon based nonvolatile storage 
which was manufactured in Japan.  Our Milpitas, CA facility is engaged in advanced technology development of flash 
memory development and manufacture.  
 
Problem(s)  
When the silicon wafer is manufactured, there are thousands of different steps, such as etch and deposition, polishing 
etc.  Every step has very sophisticated machines in high grade clean room.  But still many defects will be created 
because of dust or res idues of chemical materials.  Each defect will eventually result in electrical malfunction in the 
final products.  Therefore, it is very critical to detect the defects in every step of the process steps, instead of waiting 
until the wafer processing comple tion many months later.  But some defects are very hard to be detected by human 
eyes due to the faint nature of the optical image.  This project is using advanced neural network model to make a delta 
image by diff the defected image versus defect -less imag e. 
 
Objectives  
The students will be asked to use open -source  Regional Convolutional Neural Network (R -CNN) based deep learning 
to do image data processing. The main purpose is to identify very faint defects in the silicon wafer image.  In order to 
enhance the defect image, a diff image has to be made in comparison  to a perfect wafer image. The project  has three 
parts:  
1. Generate ‘fake’ grayscale wafer images for training data: Currently, we use the real clean wafer image for this 
purpose, but it can be done computationally, and it will help to generalize our final model. This will be the 
minimum goal.  
2. Add random defects and generate training labels for step 1.  
3. Train a U -net model to denoise the image. Again, we can add flexibility depending on the skill level. Students  can 
write it from scratch or  revise an open -source  code. We will give the specification for the final outcome.  
 
13. Digital AI Backpack - Backpack Opportunities Crawler  
 
Background  
Students will work on a project that involves two companies: Conectado  and Linker Finance .  
Conectado is a venture revolutionizing approaches to Latino inclusion in STEAM, emphasizing technology. We 
are committed to empowering Latinos to succeed by building safer, simpler, and more sustainable connections from 
the classroom to career to the board room. Conectado is a virtual platform that brings together educational 
institutions, social impact organizations, and private and public businesses, all working together to increase the 
representation of Latinos in tech. At Conectado, users can access boot  camps and certifications that will allow them to 
reskill or upskill, connect with educational institutions and potential employers, develop a strategic network, meet 
mentors, and access career readiness resources.  Linker Finance is an embedded finance platform that expedites the launch of modern FinTech and Bank -like 
Mobile and Web apps & services within weeks. The platform offers front -end Turnkey solutions, Front -End SDKs, 
and middleware with over 30+ integrations  for card issuing, deposits, bank connection, ID verification (KYC), 
business verification (KYB), automatic money movement, financial insights, analytics, CRM, and more. We empower 
companies to unlock additional revenue streams and essential financial insi ghts, enabling them to deliver exceptionally 
tailored and personalized services.  
For this project, students will focus on our Digital AI Backpack project. The Digital AI Backpack seeks to create 
a centralized, structured database of financial, educational, and professional opportunities that Conectado users can 
access. Linker Finance i s developing an App that can allow Conectado users to access a centralized database of 
resources and opportunities available in the Conectado platform.  
 
Problem(s)  
There is no centralized, standardized, structured database of opportunities for students, and they are all managed by 
different organizations; some of them have APIs, some of them are posted in Content Management Systems, some 
even on an image or document format such as JPG and PDF. Coordinating this effort would be prohibitive, yet the 
information is available, making it an interesting task for applying AI methods.  
 
Objectives  
Extract and store inside a structured database a set of opportunities for students (i.e., internships, jobs, gigs, 
scholarships, grants), including important metadata such as name, description, URL for applying, application deadline 
or deadlines, and impor tant dates. The algorithm should also create meta tags relevant to the opportunity, which can 
be later used by a recommender algorithm matching opportunities to specific students.  
This project is recommended for a student and/or group of students interested in Artificial Intelligence (AI) fields 
such as Text Recognition, OCR, LLMs (e.g., ChatGPT).  
 
14. Taxiline Detection Using Machine Learning  
 
Background  
Omron Robotics and Safety Technologies , Inc. (ORT)  is an automation technology development company 
focused on robotics design and manufacturing. Omron is the leader in the field of industrial automation with 
operations in over 40 countries and 150 locations worldwide. Our company is unique in that it devel ops new 
electronics, mechanics, and software for an exceptionally broad spectrum of robotics - including Selective Compliance 
Articulated Robot Arm  (SCARA ), articulated, parallel link, cobots, and autonomous mobile robots - for the global 
market . 
 
Problem(s)  
Omron’s Autonomous Mobile Robots are connected to a central system called Fleet Manager (FM). The robots 
connected to the same FM operate as a single fleet. These robots perform obstacle avoidance and intelligent 
multirobot collision avoidance behaviors wh ile navigating on the map, by extensively sharing data among themselves.  
Taxiline is a feature in these mobile robots’ navigation framework and runs on each individual robot every cycle. 
The primary function of this feature is to determine whether the robot needs to re -path plan around a stopped robot 
in its path. The feature e nsures that if the leading robot is obstructed by an obstacle, the following robot that shares a 
similar path does not attempt to replan their path around the leading robot. Instead, it stops and waits for the leading 
robot to move. When a fleet of robots share a similar path, they essentially start queuing up which forms a “Taxiline”. 
The feature avoids unnecessary replanning that could result in chaotic behavior, and promotes efficient, cleaner and 
orderly navigation.  
 
Objectives  
So given all the required data, the Taxiline algorithm essentially finds out whether the given robot is taxilining with the 
robot in the front and feeds  the result to the replanner. The existing algorithm, which is deterministic and rule -based, 
has many unaddressed edge cases. To  handle all the edge cases and to improve the accuracy, we are considering a 
machine learning based approach.   
 
Following is a real example:  In the above picture, the paths for 5 robots are shown: Robot R1 (pink), R2 (red), R3 
(yellow), R4 (green) and R5 (Orange). Ignore all other robots. R1 to R4, even though they are going to different final 
goals, since their paths are similar, they all just  queue up behind one another without trying to replan around. But if 
you look at R5, its original path (straight dotted orange line) is obstructed by R1 and it replans around R1 as R5 is not 
“Taxilining” with R1 i.e., R1’s path is not similar to R5’s.  
 
15. Online Battery Discharge/ Charge Time Estimation  
 
Background  
Omron Robotics and Safety Technologies , Inc. (ORT)  is an automation technology development company 
focused on robotics design and manufacturing. Omron is the leader in the field of industrial automation with 
operations in over 40 countries and 150 locations worldwide. Our company is unique in that it devel ops new 
electronics, mechanics, and software for an exceptionally broad spectrum of robotics - including Selective Compliance 
Articulated Robot Arm  (SCARA ), articulated, parallel link, cobots, and autonomous mobile robots - for the global 
market . 
 
Problem(s)  
Mobile robot charge/discharge time is an important parameter customers use to select a robotics supplier.  Our 
current estimation method could be improved using data that can be gathered from the robot power station including:  
• State of Charge  
• Instantaneous Charge Current  
• Instantaneous Discharge Current  
• Remaining Battery Capacity  
• Max/Min Temperature  
 
Objectives  
Estimate the remaining discharge time/charge time based on current as well as from the previous data.  
• Multiple standard methods need to be identified both deterministic and probabilistic methods.  
• These methods should be evaluated to identify the best estimation method.  
• Limitations and assumptions associated with these methods should be established.  
Test formulated method on batteries with different chemistry (Li -ion based)"  
 
16. Deadlock Prevention/ Recovery for Mobile Robot Fleets  
 
Background  
Omron Robotics and Safety Technologies , Inc. (ORT)  is an automation technology development company 
focused on robotics design and manufacturing. Omron is the leader in the field of industrial automation with 
operations in over 40 countries and 150 locations worldwide. Our company is unique in that it develops new 
electronics, mechanics, and software for an exceptionally broad spectrum of robotics - including Selective Compliance 
Articulated Robot Arm  (SCARA ), articulated, parallel link, cobots, and autonomous mobile robots - for the global 
market . 
 
Problem(s)  
A deadlock in a fleet of autonomous mobile robots (AMRs) refers to a situation where two or more robots are unable 
to move due to mutual blocking, which means each robot is blocking the path of another robot. This results in a state 
of the system where non e of the robots can move forward and continue their jobs, and the entire system is stuck in a 
deadlock. When a deadlock happens in Omron AMRs, it requires manual intervention. This not only affects the 
production  cycle time and efficiency of the fleet, but it  also makes the “intelligent” robots look dumb.  
Deadlock recovery is a mechanism used in robotics to resolve deadlocks by identifying them and taking 
appropriate actions, such as modifying the trajectories of one or more robots that are stuck in the deadlock.  
Deadlock prevention is a mechanism where the deadlocks are predicted beforehand,  and the robots’ trajectories 
are modified in such a way that the deadlocks don’t happen in the first place. One other way to predict and prevent 
deadlocks is to change the order of jobs that are picked by the robots.  
 
Objectives  
Omron team has already developed some algorithms to recover the robots out of a deadlock. But they don’t work for 
all the scenarios. Deadlock prevention is even a tougher problem and there’s no solution for it yet.  
Machine Learning/Reinforcement learning is one option that Omron team is considering to recover the robots 
out of deadlocks.  
 
17. Building a Database for Community and Mentors Engagement  
 
Background  
INNOVIT  is the premier Italian Innovation and Culture Hub, promoted by Italy’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs and 
International Cooperation and coordinated by the Consulate General of Italy in San Francisco and the Embassy of 
Italy in Washington DC. Located in the h eart of San Francisco, INNOVIT embodies Italy’s long -term commitment 
to technological innovation and to strengthening ties with the Bay Area and the US ecosystem.  Through acceleration 
programs, strategic partnerships, and international initiatives, INNOVI T connects the vital resources of Silicon Valley 
with the best opportunities offered by Italian businesses. We are the bridge that links Italian excellence in 
entrepreneurship, culture, research, and technology to the global future.  INNOVIT designs and de livers acceleration 
and innovation services for Italian companies, startups, universities, and scientific centers.  
 
Problem(s)  
This project is focusing on designing and building the INNOVIT community database, with a specific focus on 
mentors and community. The Mentors database is critical to deliver startup acceleration programs, while the 
Community Database is critical for launc hing marketing and engagement activities.  Without a well-designed  database 
the operational activities of a strategic project like INNOVIT cannot run properly as the program is scaling rapidly.  
During the last 6 months  alone, more than 3.000 people have joined +40 events, while more than 60 startups have 
participated in 2 acceleration programs involving more than 100 mentors.  
Negotiable constraints are related to INNOVIT team support, data entry, deadlines,  and project expansion to 
other areas like Visitors registrations, Sales and Booking systems.  
Non-negotiable  constraints  are mostly centered around users’  experience and key requirements.  
 
Objectives  
The team is asked to perform interviews, requirements analysis, and implementation.  At the end of the semester,  we 
are expecting to have a fully implemented database with a user-friendly  UI. 
 
18. CTTA Member Database Management and Automation  
 
Background  
Founded in 1969, the California Tow Truck Association (CTTA)  represents professional towing operators 
statewide. Created by and for towing company owners, CTTA provides unparalleled solutions and resources that 
empower towing companies to be more professional and progressive within the industry while serving the mo toring public. The mission of the California Tow Truck Association is to cultivate a community of professionals able to 
provide the highest caliber of towing and emergency road service -related solutions for the motoring public and the 
communities of our state.  
 
Problem(s)  
Currently, our database system does not function appropriately to manage members, and the data  entered does not 
transfer to our other systems. Data is lost and membership renewals and communications get lost.  
 
Objectives  
The objective is to consolidate systems and have one central database that can host and manage members, member 
renewals, and member communication all in one system that can be on our website. The task at hand is to develop 
two separate websites that will b e linked with one central database that has been built by last year’s  capstone team.  