We will be exploring and hopefully p roductizing a user interaction suite that engages both the autonomous fleet 
supervisors and the current machine operators. The system will be operating on multiple user interfaces and will 
control the fleet through a novel fleet management software that MT G has been developing for the past several years.  
The user interactions suite will consist of a front -end web -app UI that will allow different personnel to interact 
with the autonomous fleet, a telematics server to keep track of the status of the vehicle a nd update the requested 
paths, and a route planner to command the fleet.  
The web -app UI will have different pages with separate features for each of the roles in the warehouse. For fleet 
integration, a map drawing page is required to recreate the warehouse layout with different pickup and drop -off 
locations. Once the warehouse layout is created, the potential paths the vehicles can take will be added to the map. 
These paths will be created as binary trees consisting of different nodes and branches. The UI needs to visualize the 
vehicle paths within the warehouse map. The fleet s upervisors will have access to a page that allows them to create 
pickup and drop -off schedules and enter information about the transported goods. The user interface needs to have a 
limited functionality section for the warehouse workers and the machine ope rators that display the status of the 
vehicle and the materials that need to be loaded to it. Once the vehicle is loaded, the workers need to have a way of 
signaling the task is completed and that the vehicle can move to the next task.  
The telematics serv er will be responsible for the cooperation of the vehicles and the warehouse workers. It will 
contain the status of each of the vehicles by storing position, battery percentage, loaded inventory and the list of target 
nodes. The server needs to handle all the information used by the UI and allow the UI to display the status of all the 
vehicles at once. The telematics server will receive constant updates from the vehicles and will also update the tasks 
that the vehicles need to perform. The communication bet ween the vehicles and the telematics server will be done 
using the REST API.  
The last part of the user interaction suite will be the path planning and route scheduling module. It will take the 
input given by the fleet supervisor and plan the required actio ns needed to be taken by the vehicles and the warehouse 
workers. This module will generate a list of the nodes the vehicle needs to visit in order and estimate the time of 
arrival to each node based on the path length and expected time to load the vehicle.  The module can use tree traversal 
methods to generate the most optimum path.  
Our team at MTG is ready to assist in any way possible.  